Let's go ahead and have
a look at an example
which shows us how to write a program.
It calculates the sum and
the average of five numbers
which are actually
entered from a keyboard.
So, let's begin.
First thing's first, let's
declare five integers.
So, int
n1, n2,
n3
n4
n5.
There we go.
We are just declaring this variable
and now we are going to go ahead
and prompt the user to enter them.
So std::
cout
and
Enter
five
integers.
Yup, there we go.
Seperated by
by space
: for aesthetic resources and
we're going to go ahead
and place a line
terminated for example.
10 20 30 40
etc.
Ok, so next up
we will
basically accept the value
that the user gives us.
std::
cin
and Oops!
n1
and 2
n3
n4
n5
Makes me wonder why on earth
did I actually
include five numbers here instead of
two or three or something like that.
So, this is just the input from
the keyboard.
thus far, I've shown you how to enter
one number from the keyboard
but you can put it in a line
like this and enter them
one by one
no big deal.
Next up, so we'll type int
sum
=
n1 + n2 + n3
+ n4
+ n5
Ok, this will be variable sum, which
will contain the sum
of all of these numbers obviously,
so we
will just add them one by one and place
them into this
variable.
Again, I'm sorry if I'm explaining
quite literally
the most basic of things
but hey
It didn't say from beginner to advanced
If you feel like you know most of these
things,
or that I'm boring you with these things
I would advise you then to just
skip down to more advanced things
which you are
more interested in as the course
is pretty much separated
by subjects one after the other.
So we have
declared this variable, we have
used +
+ is a binary operator
for addition.
Now, let's do this in the completely
wrong way.
We will type in
float
average
and this will be equal to sum
divided by 5.
So, hey
Why is this wrong?
We have the sum
and 5 is the number of integers we have
added in such a way
we find the average. We take this sum and
then we
divide it by the number
of integers we have included
into that sum.
Why is this wrong? Well, let me go
ahead and show you.
std
::cout
let's go ahead and do this.
Average value
value is
:
Let's close it.
average
actually you can go ahead and do this
manually
on your calculators if you want as well.
And you will see that you will
most likely get different results.
So, std
::
endl
Ok, so this is going to give
us a wrong output.
Why?
Well, I'll explain soon enough.
But as I say, if you just take
your calculator, and if you bear with me
you will see that mine is
different from yours. If I type in
thats, ok that's
and if I type in
4, that's 7
and if I type in 6 that's
that's 13,
and if I type in, I don't know,
4, that should be 20,
No,
that would be 17. I'm so sorry.
So, the sum of these numbers
is 17.
1 and 2 that's 3, 4 that would be 7, plus
6 thats 13
+ 4 that's 17.
So, 17 divided
by 5.
That's not the result would
definitely not be an integer.
So, if I press enter,
It says, value is 3. There is no way
that the value is 3.
3 times
3 times whatever is not going
to give you 17. Any integer whatever.
3 times any integer will not give you
17. 3 times 5?
Is 15,
3 times
6 is 18
and no integer multiplied by 3 is
going to give you 17.
So, what is going on here? Why
are we getting this
wrong result?
Let's close this.
So, what we're doing here is
integer division.
Sum is an integer
and all of these numbers are integers.
and
5 is an integer.
So, if we divide one integer,
by another integer,
We will also get a result that
is also an integer
regardless of whether it is
correct or not.
Because if the answer was
that we know
is 3.
It doesn't matter, I don't know,
let's say it's 3.23.
Again incorrect, it doesn't matter.
Integer division
will yield an integer number
and what that means is that
the decimal portions
will get
truncated.
They will be gone.
And only the integer will remain.
Henceforth, we will
receive a wrong
result.
When two entries are divided,
the decimal part is truncated.
and the result is
an integer.
How do we solve this? Instead of 5,
which is an int, we need to write 5.0f
f is
for float
or 5.f
No need for the zero.
So, let's calculate
the average corrently.
We will now declare
our variable like this.
Well
not the clear variable. But just
changed the division number.
So, it's 5.0
f lower casef
or we could... yeah.
What this means is that we are
dividing and integer
by a floating point number
which will result in a floating point
number result.
So, now we are going to get a
correct result, hopefullly.
And
let's go ahead and run it.
And see what happens.
It's 1, 2, 3
4,
5, so this is like,
3 and 3 that's 6
and 4 that's
10 and 5 and it is not good.
I don't know, this is like yeah,
4 again.
So, this is 8, this is 3
that's 11.
and 2 that's 13 and 1
that's 14.
So, if you
press Enter now, you will
get the result
2.8, so now we are
getting the correct result
We're getting the
integer portion and we're getting the
decimal portion as well.
between, this is a floating point
number. Excellent!
This is one of the most common
mistakes that you can make.
You divide two integers.
You store them into the float
into a floating point number. And It
doesn't matter integer division
will yield another integer
and you will get a mistake
which will not reported by the debugger.
And it is kind of a logical mistake so
it will be kind of difficult to actually
find it. You need to be very
careful
when
writing
this number.
So, anyway, this is the average value and
down below,
we can actually up
I think we should actually write it
up above
std
::cout
Sum of
these numbers is
sum
endl
Let's run it one more time.
Ah! What now?
Ah, right right right!
ok std
::
that's it!
Ah! Come on!
Today is just not my day!
Or night, or whatever!
Like I said, there are five
integers. Let's go and 3 4, 5
Ok, some of these numbers is 20.
Average value is
4.
There we go.
So,
Even though it is a floating point number,
It will take integers and floating points
as a result. So we do not necessarily
need to have a
decimal space here at all.
Because, 3 or 4 that is 7.
And 7 that is 14.
and 1 that is 15. And 5 that is 20.
20 divided by 5,
is
4 so this is
completely correct.
I am going to bid you farewell here. And
we're going to go ahead and continue
in the follow up tutorial.